# 2. WoT Thing needs to have istate/ostate Bands

Points:

* WeMo Model
* Interstitial State
* What do the properties return?

## WeMo

Consider the WeMo Switch, a popular "stater" IoT device. Turning a light off to on looks like this.

Stages:

1. the switch is **off**
1. the user sends **turn on** command / the WeMo receives it
1. about 300ms (guestimate) passes
1. the switch is **on**

It's step (3) we're considering.

## WoT Thing

So let's look at this as a WoT property manipulation. Note that I'm just pseudocoding this, I don't know if there's a property called exactly "on" but I'm sure there's something like it.

	thing.getProperty("on") 		## (stage 1) a promise that yields false
	thing.setProperty("on", true)	## (stage 2) 
	thing.getProperty("on")		## (stage 3) WHAAA?
	thing.getProperty("on")		## (stage 4)
	
## The contradiction

It's Stage 3 that's the concern. We don't have a clean way of knowing that we're turning on the light, but the light is currently off.

This is called the "Interstitial State" and it's important that this is indicated in the UI.

Now, the immediate objection might be "Well, thing.setProperty('on', true)" returns a Promise that will tell when the the light turns on. But _this is not sufficient_ because _thing.getProperty("on")_ might be called **somewhere else in the code** or **by someone else entirely in a different process**

## The solution

Break up the properties into two states:

* the **istate**, the "input state", the actual state of the thing
* the **ostate**, the "output state", the state we're trying to transition to. 

These are independent

Now our code looks like this

	thing.istate.getProperty("on") 		## (stage 1) a promise that yields false
	thing.istate.setProperty("on", true)	## (stage 2) 
	thing.istate.getProperty("on")		## (stage 3) FALSE
	thing.ostate.getProperty("on")		## (stage 3) TRUE
	thing.istate.getProperty("on")		## (stage 4)

Or even more simply if we make the assumption that the istate and ostate are basically views of the properties

	thing.istate.get("on") 		## (stage 1) a promise that yields false
	thing.istate.set("on", true)	## (stage 2) 
	thing.istate.get("on")		## (stage 3) FALSE
	thing.ostate.get("on")		## (stage 3) TRUE
	thing.istate.get("on")		## (stage 4)
	thing.ostate.get("on")		## (stage 4) NULL - "nothing happening"
	

