# 3. WoT Thing needs to have meta Band

Points to be made:

* Facets: AC / Furnace / Thermostat combo
* Schema.org properties, what if we want a Model Number?
* Meta or Model?

## Nest Thermostat

For this example, we'll be considering the Nest Thermostat. 
The Nest Thermostat has (let's say):

* it controls the AC
* it controls the Furnace
* it monitors Temperature
* it monitors Humidity

## (3A) What's the "type" of this Thing?
### Problem
As in:

        readonly attribute DOMString type;

Is it a:

* Nest
* AC Control
* Heating Control
* Climate Control (in General)

My answer would be "it's several of these" and in particular, the last three. 

### Solution: Facets 

The "type" of a Thing cannot be a single value. 
Furthermore, the word "type" is heavily overloaded so we propose the term "facets".

So the Nest thermostat would have 

We propose the following solution:

* use a "meta" band to store this type of data
* use "facets" (within the meta) to describe the "type" of a Thing

e.g. the Nest Thing would have (at least) the following facets:

* "Climate Control"
* "AC"
* "Heating"

Since we want to be Semantic, we should use URLs (/QNames) for concepts, giving us the facets

	"iot-facet:climate",
	"iot-facet:climate.heating",
	"iot-facet:climate.cooling",
	

Which can be looked up here:

	https://iotdb.org/pub/iot-facet

## (3B) Additional Data

The WoT Model defines the following meta-data like items.

    readonly attribute DOMString id;
    readonly attribute DOMString type;
    readonly attribute DOMString name;

What if we want to have an image associated with the metadata. How about _two_ images? What about the manufacture name, or URL, or the Model code? How about a description?

## (3C) Schema.org Vocabulary

Schema.org provides a well supported semantic vocabulary. Of particular interest to the IoT community is:

* https://schema.org/Thing
* https://schema.org/Product

There is _no need_ to make new definitions for common concepts: the work has been done for us.

## (3D) Meta v Model

Note that you might say "why are you using metadata to describe this rather than the model". In fact, you probably want it in both, e.g.

* the model has the initial definitions
* when a Thing is instantiated, it copies the initial definitions from the model to the meta. 
* the meta can be modified during use; the model is basically static

Considering the WeMo Switch again. Out of the box its facet is "iot-facet:switch". However, if we connect it to a lamp then we really want to consider this _to be a lamp_, e.g. its facet should become "iot-facet:lighting". 


## (3E) Putting it all together

Instead of variables on a Thing, we propose that there be a band (i.e. a JSON-like dictionary) that stores all the meta data.

This would look very much like this:

	{
		"iot:thing-id": "<the thing id>",
		"iot:facet": [
	        "iot-facet:climate",
	        "iot-facet:climate.heating",
	        "iot-facet:climate.cooling",
		],
		"schema:name": "My Super Cool Nest Thermostat",
		"schema:manufacturer": "https://nest.com",
		"schema:model": "Nest",
		"schema:mpn": "......",
		"schema:productID": "......",
	}

You'll note that this looks very much like the istate and ostate bands, even though its purpose is very different. Code wise it's much the same


	thing.meta.get("schema:name")	## "My Super Cool Nest Thermostat"
	thing.meta.get("iot:facet")		## [ ... ]
	thing.meta.set("schema:name", "David's Thermostat")
	
and so forth
	

