# 4. WoT Thing needs to have a model Band

Points:

* magic words
* temperature v temperature
* incomplete models
* massive variation

## The Model Band

In this proposal, the "model" band would be a JSON document that principally describes the data seen in the "ostate" and "istate". 

Furthermore, the model bad should work on a composition model, not a class one. That is, you don't define a "light" class, you define "on", "brightness" and "color" and so forth. Things that define a "color" control can have their color set.

It may also describe the Thing itself, e.g. the manufacturer name, the model code, and so forth, though I believe this is information is used as a template to populate the metadata.

An example of what a Model band would look like is here

https://github.com/dpjanes/homestar-hue/blob/master/models/HueLight.json

## Magic Words

The Internet today is made up of "magic words". In the HTTP Header, "Content-Type", "If-Modified-Since", … and so forth. In TCP, "Sequence Number", "Acknowledgement Number", …. 

The (admittedly straw man) proposal here (https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-hartke-core-lighting-00) standardizes the magic words: on, brightness, hue, saturation, x, y, colorTemperature, colorMode. 

	{
       "on": true,
       "brightness": 0.5,
       "hue": 210,
       "saturation": 0.9,
       "x": 0.4448,
       "y": 0.4066,
       "colorTemperature": 343,
       "colorMode": "ct"
     }

A Sensor proposal (https://w3c.github.io/sensors/) has this:

    enum ProximitySensorPosition {
        "top-left",
        "top",
        "top-right",
        "middle-left",
        "middle",
        "middle-right",
        "bottom-left",
        "bottom",
        "bottom-right"
    };

This approach will not work well with the Internet of Things, for the reasons outlined below.

## If we're doing Semantics, use Linked Data

e.g. "Use introspectable URIs to name things".

Instead of using "top-left", have published URIs that name the concept of "ProximitySensorPosition" and "top-left" (&c). Then if in the future you need the concept of say "80% toward the left" you have future-proofed your vocabulary.

## Which Magic Word: temperature v temperature

Consider an oven, where you can set the temperature you want, and the oven has a temperature you can read. 

Do we create separate terms for these temperatures? If you do, you end up with many parallel terms, on for actuating and another for sensing. On the other hand, if you use the _same_ term, then you need ways of differentiating them from each other.

## Incomplete Models

## Variation of Sensors / Things

